# Classifying-and-Predicting-Country-Type-through-Development-Indicators
In this project supervised and unsupervised learnings are used for data analysis, unsupervised learning is used for dimensionality reduction of data and supervised learning is used for classification of data. Kernel principal component analysis is an unsupervised technique which reduce the dimensionality of independent variables without losing much information.
**Data**
The data used in this study is taken from the United Nation Development Program and World Bank databases. The data consists information about Human Development Index of 188  countries across the world. After initial review of the data, one hundred and fifteen (115) countries were selected that has maximum information on the different development
indicators. The Human development index’ (HDI) score indicate the country type and this score was provided every year for each country by the United Nations. The range of the HDI value is zero to one. The countries those have the HDI value 0.800 or greater go to the very high HD’s category, and the countries those have the HDI value between 0.700 to 0.800 go to the High HD’s category, and the countries those have the HDI value between 0.555 to 0.700 go to medium HD’s category. And the countries those have the HDI value less than 0.555 go to the low HD’s category.
**Variables:**
The dependent variable is country type (CT) that is categorical variable with four categories defined above. and all the indicators “Suicide mortality rate (SMR), Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments (WNP), GDP growth (GDP), Trade in services (TS), Merchandise imports (IMP), Merchandise exports (EXP), External balance on goods and services (EB-GS), Primary School enrollment (PSE), Secondary School enrollment (SSE) ( Health Expenditures/ capita (HE/c), Immunization DPT (IM-DPT), Mortality rate under-5 (MR¡5) are independent variables.
